To transition from one animation to another we're going to need to create a script.
So let's begin doing that.
I'll switch back over here to the scene view and we're kind of getting a little disorganized here so
let's go ahead and create a few folders and organize things a bit.
I'm going to right click Create a folder and let's call this materials and I'll just grab these materials
here like this and I'll drag those into my materials folder.
Let's create one for our textures textures and I'll just take the basic color the hair.
Let's go ahead and take the sprite sheets as well.
Those are textures basically.
Let's put those in there and all of this even though we use the idol for the character model we're using
these for animation so I'm just gonna create a folder and call it animations and let's just take all
of these and drop them in there and also let's create a scripts folder to WE'RE GONNA NEED THAT.
SO THERE WE GO.
NOW IN THIS scripts folder I'll go ahead and right click and choose create and let's create a C sharp
script let's call it player and there we go.
Now we can take our player Idol we can select that over here in the hierarchy and we can grab this player
script and we can drag it over here and drop it onto our character.
Now in addition we're going to need a character controller.
So we're going to need a component in here that we can actually use to control the character.
So let's click on Add component.
Let's come down here to physics and let's choose character controller.
There we go.
Now we've got this capsule around him.
So we're gonna need to adjust that a bit.
I'll click on the z axis here to spin around to.
Well we better choose the x axis to spin around to his left side and then I'll click this to switch
from perspective to author graphic view.
Now we need to configure this so the height of the capsule is currently two meters.
Our character is 1 meters.
Let's just type in 1 and hit enter.
We need to move it up in the Y so let's move it up.
Point 5.5 meters in the Y and then we need to change the radius.
So maybe the radius instead of point five is let's try.
Point 2 5.
Yeah.
That looks pretty good.
Tumble back around and that looks pretty good.
Click here to change from author graphic or isometric to perspective.
Now that we've got that setup we need to configure it in our script as well.
So I'm gonna double click on our player script and that will bring up visual studio here on my system.
And here is our script template.
So as I said the first thing we need to do is set up that character controller and also set up that
animator.
Those are two things that we've created that this script needs to be able to communicate with.
So let's click here and I'm gonna hit enter to go to the next line and I want to create a private variable
for the character controller.
So I'm gonna type in private character controller and I'll just call it controller semicolon.
There we go.
Now we also need to create a variable for the animator.
So let's call this private.
It's gonna be of type animator and we'll just call it Adam and we go.
So now we've got the variables for the controller and the animator.
I'm going to go ahead and save it here just to make sure I don't lose anything.
So as soon as we start the game we need to take that variable and put it into memory.
So let's go ahead and in the start function here.
As you can see it's called before the first frame.
As soon as the game begins let's take that controller and let's put in that controller the character
controller that we just created.
So I'll say get component we go and that's what we want and I'll create these little guys the little
arrows and we'll grab that character controller
and then two parentheses and a semicolon there and we'll do the same thing for the animator.
We'll take that anim variable and we'll fill it with the game object
component in children we want this game component in children there and we'll give it the animator
we go to parentheses and a semicolon.
Then we go.
So we're creating the variable and then we're grabbing the components from the scene from the objects
in the scene and we're putting those in those variables.
Now what do we do with those.
So what let's say is under here.
In the update function what we need to do is say if the up arrow is pushed then we need to kick off
the run animation we need to change the animation parameter to 1.
Right.
So let's say if our controller is is on the ground we need to make sure it's on the ground.
So we say is grounded and we find that there is input from the key the up arrow.
So in this parentheses here I'll type it up if that's the case.
If the controller is grounded I need to add an R here don't I comptroller.
There we go if the controller is grounded and we see there's input coming from the up key from the up
arrow key.
Then what let's do is let's change that animation parameter to 1.
So let's create our brackets here and let's say the anim variable we want to set that integer.
Remember we used integer.
I'll double click this.
We want to set that integer of the enum parameter to 1 and we go.
So what we're doing is we're setting the integer for the animation parameter to 1.
Now if you don't have anything coming in if there isn't any input coming in from that up arrow What
are you gonna do.
Well what you can do is a.
Else if the controller is just grounded but there isn't anything else happening
then what we should do.
Is make sure that animation parameter that integer
is set
and parameter is set to 0 and we go.
So once again this is what we're saying we're saying that if the controller is grounded that animation
or that character control or that that capsule that we just created if it's touching the ground and
the up arrow is pushed then we're gonna change the animation parameter to 1.
Otherwise if the controller is grounded and nothing is happening then we're going to leave the animation
parameter at zero.
All right.
Now what happens if we hit the spacebar.
If we want him to jump.
Well let's take a look at that.
We can come down here and say if we've got input
coming in or the spacebar or the jump key because the space bar in unity is just automatically setup
as the jump key.
So we'll just type in jump and the controller is grounded
then what are we going to do.
I have a comma here instead of a period.
Let's put that back.
There we go.
Then let's add our brackets.
So what are we gonna do here.
If we get input from the spacebar and the controller is grounded then we need to set that animation
parameter right.
Same thing
and I'm PA to to semicolon.
There we go.
So that's how we kick off the animations.
We're not moving the character at all yet.
We're not moving them around the ground plane or pushing them up when he jumps.
We're not doing any of that.
We're just kicking off the animations.
Now the last thing I want to do is add a little gravity so that we push down on that controller to make
sure that it's grounded when he isn't doing anything.
So what we need to do is we need to create a new variable up here at the top and it's going to be a
vector 3.
It's a move variable that encompasses X Y and Z all in one.
So let's just come up here and let's create another private variable and let's call it a vector 3 so
that encompasses all three axes and let's just call it move direction and let's make sure that everything
is set to zero
all the axes are set to zero.
There we go.
So we've got this vector 3.
Now we can use it down here let's just go down a couple of lines here and now we can create our gravity
list.
So let's take that controller and let's use that move direction move direction here.
And we're going to multiply it by what's called Time dot delta time and what that does is it makes the
movement constant.
If we didn't do that it would pull down based on the frame rate of the game and the frame rate of the
game can fluctuate depending on the power of the console or the computer or the mobile device.
So to keep the force constant we need to fix it to time.
And that's what that time dot delta time will do.
It will make sure the force is based on a constant time.
So let's now take that move direction and in the y axis that up down axis here in unity.
Let's subtract a gravity times time dot delta time.
Know we go so we're taking the amount of gravity and subtracting it every second pulling down in the
y axis.
Now we've got a red squiggly line here and if we hover over it it says the name gravity does not exist.
Well that's because we haven't created it as a variable yet.
So let's do that.
Let's now come up here and I'm going to move down to here and now we'll begin creating our public variables.
So let's create a public float a float is just a number with a decimal point as opposed to an integer
and let's call this gravity and we can set it to anything at this point in time.
Let's just set it to 20 and we'll do.
Point zero f or float and semicolon.
And there we go.
So let's press control s to save that script and now let's give it a test.
Let's give it a try.
Let's go back to unity and with our player script here in the inspector for our player idol.
Let's go ahead and hit play so there he is idling.
Let's now hit the up arrow and he runs and let's hit the jump and he goes through the jump animation.
So there we go.
Now I see he's hovering above the ground playing just a bit.
Let's take a look at that.
I'll hit the play button and let's go over here and let's see what's up with this.
Yeah.
Let's see if we can take that skin width down.
Let's.
We've got skin width here to point at point zero eight.
Let's take that down to just zero and what that would do if I hit enter.
It'll then take it down to the lowest possible number.
So let's see if that helped.
I'll hit play again and yeah.
So now he's firmly on the ground.
All right I'll hit that up arrow again.
And he runs and I'll hit the jump and he goes through his jump animation if we come over here to the
animator we can see the idol cycling through the animation we come back here to the game.
There he is.
All right.
So we have our animations set up in our script.
I'll go ahead and stop this.
So in the next video what we need to do I'll go back to perspective here.
What we need to do is work on setting up the 2D animation.
What I'd like to do is see those 2D face animations play at the same time that the 3D animations do.
So in the next video we'll work on that.